# Bayesian multi-proxy reconstruction of early Eocene latitudinal temperature gradients

Author(s): [Kilian Eichenseer](mailto:kilian.eichenseer@durham.ac.uk) and [Lewis A. Jones](mailto:LewisA.Jones@outlook.com)

This repository contains the data and code required to run the analyses and results of the article, "Bayesian multi-proxy reconstruction of early Eocene latitudinal temperature gradients" (Eichenseer and Jones, 2023). 

To cite the paper: 
> Kilian Eichenseer and Lewis A. Jones. 2023. Bayesian multi-proxy reconstruction of early Eocene latitudinal temperature gradients. Submitted to *Climate of the Past*.

-------

## Data
The data is organised in the folder "data" as follows:

* **./data/raw/**
This folder contains the raw data before processing.

* **./data/processed/**
This folder contains the processed data that is used in the analyses.

-------

## Figures
The "figures" folder contains the four figures and the table of the manuscript, 
as well as two subfolders:

* **./figures/discussion/**
This folder contains figures from publications that were used
to estimate latitudinal gradients referenced in Table 1 and the discussion

* **./figures/SM/**
This folder contains the figures and panels for the supplementary materials.

-------

## Analyses
Data analyses is set up to run as follows:

* **./R/options.R**
This script defines the options to use in the study (priors, distributions of
ecological data, model parameters for the EECO run).

* **./R/run_analyses.R**
This script runs the analyses. Careful, the model runs with simulated gradients
take many hours to run.

* **./R/analyses/**
This folder contains the R scripts that run the models, as well as subfolders
containing scripts processing the modelling results, and analyses for the 
supplementary materials.

* **./R/data_preparation/**
This folder contains R scripts that organise the data from Hollis et al. 2019, 
and generate the palaeocoordinates for these data and the palaeoecological data.

* **./R/figures/**
This folder contains the R scripts to generate the figures.

-------

## Results
The "results" folder stores the results generated by the 
analysis scripts, organised in the following subfolders:

* **./results/eeco**
Results from modelling the EECO gradient.

* **./results/modern/**
Results from modelling the modern gradient.

* **./results/simulation/**
Results from modelling the simulated gradients.

* **./results/SM/**
Results for the supplementary materials.

-------
